---
layout: ../../layouts/post.astro
title: "Listing posts with Astro"
pubDate: 2024-04-19
description: "This post alone would've been a pain to make in plain HTML."
author: 'Hazel Hofmann'
tags: ['posting', 'astro', 'blog', 'frontmatter', 'markdown', 'imports']
---
Hiya,

So I finally got around to making this work! I guess this is a blog now? I will try to post on here sometimes when there's something interesting going on in my life (that I can comfortably share) or when I've made something I think is neat. The latter happens today!

# Dynamically listing posts with Astro
This website is statically generated using [Astro](https://astro.build/). Astro is a pretty modern static site generator for the (intentionally) dated look of this site, but brings a bunch of modern and admittedly useful features along with it. The most important feature to building a dynamic list of pages like the one used in the blog is Astro's support for [glob pattern imports](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/imports/#astroglob).

Blog posts are contained inside `.md` files, which can contain a bit of metadata above the post's content, including the title, the publication date and a short description. This consists of a YAML configuration called 'frontmatter', which looks like this in my [post from last october](./2023-10-06):

```yaml
---
layout: ../../layouts/post.astro
title: "What's up with your name?"
pubDate: 2023-10-06
description: "Morgan is my legal name, Hazel is my preferred name, which one you end up using doesn't really matter."
author: 'Hazel Hofmann'
tags: ['identity', 'names', 'trans']
---
```

The lookup is done while the site is being built, so none of this is at the expense of the user's resources at runtime. Just as the lord intended.

The YAML frontmatter that is specified in the top of the `.md` files can then be fed into a custom [Astro JSX component](https://docs.astro.build/en/basics/astro-components/#the-component-template) directly from an import of the file. A component is basically just a fancier way to consolidate a bunch of HTML code into one tag to call. That component looks a little like this:

```jsx
<div class="post">
    <div class="content">
        <div class="description">
            <a href={href}><h3>{title}</h3></a>
            <i>{date}</i>
            <p>{description}</p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

The `href`, `title`, original `pubDate` which is turned into `date`, and `description` are all fetched directly from the frontmatter of the post mentioned before.

Then, using glob pattern imports, I can look up all files in the directory `/src/pages/posts` ending in the `.md` file suffix:

```js
const posts = await Astro.glob("/src/pages/posts/*.md");
```

Sort them by descending publication date, map them out, and feed them into the `<Post />` component, like so:

```jsx
posts.sort((a, b) => a.frontmatter.pubDate > b.frontmatter.pubDate ? -1 : 1).map((post) => (
    <Post href={post.url} {...post.frontmatter} />
))
```

And that's how the [post list on the homepage](/) is made! Pretty neat, huh?

# Also: Website redesign
On another note, you may have noticed things look a little different around here! I decided to go for a more classic look for my website, something that reminds me of the various sites I'd discover on my web escapades when I was younger. I think so far I've nailed the look, but this page is sort of like the [Ship of Theseus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus). As is anyone, and any person who makes a website.

Some of the 88x31 banners below are clickable, they'll take you to some neat things. Give them a try.

Thanks for reading!

Sincerely, Hazel